Why INTEGER BASIC? Woz explains: "I wrote down a complete syntax chart of the
commands that were in the H-P BASIC manual, and I included floating point
arithmetic, decimal points, numbers and everything. Then I started thinking
it was going to take me a month longer - I could save a month if I left out
the floating point."

Wozniak was confident that a good mathematician can work around the
limitation of integers: "We made the first handheld scientific calculators at
H-P, that's what I was designing, and they would work with transcendental
numbers, like SIN and COSIN. And was everything floating point? No! We did
all the calculations inside our calculators digitally, for higher accuracy
and higher speed, with integers. I said, basically integers can solve
anything. I was a mathematician of the type that wanted to solve things with
integers. You could always have dollars and cents as separate integer numbers
- all you need for games is integers. So I thought, I'll save a month writing
my BASIC, and I'll have a chance to be known as the first one to write a
BASIC for the 6502 processor. I said: I'll become famous like Bill Gates if I
write it the fastest I could. So I stripped out the floating point."

Lastly, Woz reminisces, "I liked Integer BASIC. There's a lot of things you
could do to save time, but you have to think mathematically. And most people
would rather just have the easy world - so it wasn't good for most people.
But for my type of person, Integer was great. I would want to do things with
integers."

Given that it's been 50 years since BASIC was formed, does he believe it
still has a place in the world? "I think it does. I still recommend it
frequently, as the right way to start programming classes. Or at least a
simpler language like BASIC - it's probably pretty hard to find the exact,
plain old original BASIC in this day of graphics on computers. But yes, I do."

"But as far as the introduction to computing... To me BASIC and FORTRAN are
the same. Either one of those, that's the right way to start, and not a real
super structured language where you have to learn so much about the
structure. It's better to learn structure from the ground up, the basic
atoms. Which is what BASIC is. To learn the structure from the ground up,
once you've learned it you will apply it in a structured language. Then
you're ready for it."